# Systems Thinking

## Cognition Patterns

## DSRP
### D: Distinctions
All things or ideas exist within their surroundings. Therefore nothing can exist "in a vacuum". There is a thing you are distinguishing, known as the "identity", and everything else, known as the "other".  The simple example would be a teacup. The teacup is a distinction, but we cannot ignore everything around the teacup. For example, the air around the teacup plays a role in the functions of the teacup. Can anyone give me a reason why the environment around the teacup plays a role in the functioning of the teacup? (Heat loss or Heat gain from the ambient air for example. Maybe a high pitched frequency can crack the teacup.)

### S: Systems
The systems rule lays out that things can be lumped together to make up systems, or split apart into their parts. When being sufficient critical thinkers, we would both split or lump elements depending on the context. The level of depth applied is dependent on the context as well.  
### R: Relationships
All elements have the ability to have relationships with other elements. An element could even have a relationship with itself. Relationships can be unidirectional, bidirectional, tridirectional, one to many, many to one, etc...  
### P: Perspectives
Perspectives are made of a "point" and a "view". Hence the term "point of view". Depending on the perspective (aka the view), the point may be different. For example, the marketing team for a product being designed may not care about the technical complexities of how the device works. Whereas the engineers may care about those complexities but not care as much about the asthetics or marketability of the product (as a contrived simple example).

## Mouse Example
Show mouse example.

## Life Cycle Analysis
DOUUUGGGGG

# Split into random groups of 3 for the rest

## In class example
Make a systems diagram showing as much as you can about a standard chest freezer. Be sure to connect parts and describe their relationships!  

Add two perspectives, the main user, and the product design engineer (i want you to think about things regarding the mass production of the product, as well as other things the design engineer may find important). 

Here are some of the main features that the freezer has. Infer what other parts/features the freezer needs to complete functions, or what other parts/features are standard to a freezer:
1. Heat Pump (A single heat pump)
2. Thermostat (A single thermostat)
3. A light that turns on when the lid is opened
4. A fuse to prevent over current

## Media system
1. Make a systems diagram that visualizes, from your view, the main-stream media system.  

Be sure to have parts that are distinguished, parts that make up larger parts, relationships between the parts.  

2. Now add a perspective on the system from someone in the "ruling class". From YOUR perspective, show the points of THEIR perspective.  

3. How can a working class member's perspective on the system be looped into the system itself? Find 2 ways one can loop their perspective into the system that would ultimately benefit the ruling class, and one way that the perspective loop would benefit the working class. Recognize that this visualization is coming from YOUR perspective! 

## Generative AI systems (LLMs)
1. Make a systems diagram that shows your perspective's depth of the Generative AI Large Language Model proliferation in the world.
2. Any conflicts of interest? (Point these out using the perspective tool)
3. What cognitive feedback loops exist with an AI?
    - Noting that a positive feedback loop does not mean "positive outcomes" but instead is regarding the ever increasing growth of the feedback loop (where as negative feedback is regarding the attempt to hold something stable, not a "negative outcome")
    -  Describe these feedback loops (using the perspective tool) as positive/negative, and attempt to validate your claims.

## Essay
Individually. Write a ~500 word discussion about your understanding of the concept of "critical thinking" or "systems thinking". Is it important? Why/Why Not?  

Is there anything in your understanding about critical thinking that is lacking? Identify them.  

If you use any AI to aid you in this, you MUST cite it, and provide external evidence for validation of the language that was generated by that AI. I recommend NOT using AI at all.